README.md, before:

<div align="center"><img width="200" src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/49841676?s=200&v=4"></div>

# Jinja2С++

[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-C++-blue.svg)](https://isocpp.org/)
[![Standard](https://img.shields.io/badge/c%2B%2B-14-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B#Standardization)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/vu59lw4r67n8jdxl/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/flexferrum/jinja2cpp-n5hjm/branch/master)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/ff01fa4410ac417f8192dce78e919ece)](https://www.codacy.com/app/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp_2?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![Github Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/all.svg)](https://github.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/releases)
[![Github Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp.svg)](http://github.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/issues)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Mozilla-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/master/LICENSE)
[![conan.io](https://api.bintray.com/packages/manu343726/conan-packages/jinja2cpp%3AManu343726/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/manu343726/conan-packages/jinja2cpp%3AManu343726/_latestVersion)
[![Gitter Chat](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/Jinja2Cpp/Lobby)

C++ implementation of Jinja2 Python template engine. This library was originally inspired by [Jinja2CppLight](https://github.com/hughperkins/Jinja2CppLight) project and brings support of mostly all Jinja2 templates features into C++ world.

## Introduction

Main features of Jinja2C++:
-  Easy-to-use public interface. Just load templates and render them.
-  Conformance to [Jinja2 specification](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/)
-  Full support of narrow- and wide-character strings both for templates and parameters.
-  Built-in reflection for C++ types.
-  Powerful full-featured Jinja2 expressions with filtering (via '|' operator) and 'if'-expressions.
-  Control statements (`set`, `for`, `if`, `do`, `with`).
-  Templates extention, including and importing
-  Macros
-  Rich error reporting.

For instance, this simple code:

```c++
#include <jinja2cpp/template.h>

std::string source = R"(
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(', ') }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(d = '; ') }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(d = '; ') | lower }}!!!
)";

Template tpl;
tpl.Load(source);

std::string result = tpl.RenderAsString({}).value();
```

produces the result string:

```
Helloworld!!!
Hello, world!!!
Hello; world!!!
hello; world!!!
```

## Getting started

In order to use Jinja2C++ in your project you have to:
* Clone the Jinja2C++ repository
* Build it according with the instructions
* Link to your project.

Usage of Jinja2C++ in the code is pretty simple:
1.  Declare the jinja2::Template object:

```c++
jinja2::Template tpl;
```

2.  Populate it with template:

```c++
tpl.Load("{{'Hello World' }}!!!");
```

3.  Render the template:

```c++
std::cout << tpl.RenderAsString({}).value() << std::endl;
```

and get:

`
Hello World!!!
`

That's all!

More detailed examples and features describtion can be found in the documentation: [https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage](https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage)

## Current Jinja2 support
Currently, Jinja2Cpp supports the limited number of Jinja2 features. By the way, Jinja2Cpp is planned to be full [jinja2 specification](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/templates/)-conformant. The current support is limited to:
-  expressions. You can use almost every style of expressions: simple, filtered, conditional, and so on.
-  big number of filters (**sort, default, first, last, length, max, min, reverse, unique, sum, attr, map, reject, rejectattr, select, selectattr, pprint, dictsort, abs, float, int, list, round, random, trim, title, upper, wordcount, replace, truncate, groupby, urlencode**)
-  big number of testers (**eq, defined, ge, gt, iterable, le, lt, mapping, ne, number, sequence, string, undefined, in, even, odd, lower, upper**)
-  limited number of functions (**range**, **loop.cycle**)
-  'if' statement (with 'elif' and 'else' branches)
-  'for' statement (with 'else' branch and 'if' part support)
-  'include' statement
-  'import'/'from' statements
-  'set' statement
-  'extends'/'block' statements
-  'macro'/'call' statements
-  'with' statement
-  'do' extension statement
-  recursive loops
-  space control

Full information about Jinja2 specification support and compatibility table can be found here: [https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/j2_compatibility.html](https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/j2_compatibility.html).

## Supported compilers
Compilation of Jinja2Cpp tested on the following compilers (with C++14 enabled feature):
-  Linux gcc 5.0
-  Linux gcc 6.0
-  Linux gcc 7.0
-  Linux clang 5.0
-  Linux clang 6.0
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 x86, x64
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 x86, x64
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2019 x86, x64

## Build and install
Jinja2Cpp has several external dependencies:
-  `boost` library (at least version 1.55) 
-  `nonstd::expected-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/expected-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/expected-lite)
-  `nonstd::variant-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/variant-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/variant-lite)
-  `nonstd::value-ptr-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/value-ptr-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/value-ptr-lite)
-  `nonstd::optional-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/optional-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/optional-lite)
-  `nonstd::string-view-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/string-view-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/string-view-lite)
-  `fmtlib::fmt` [https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt)
-  `robin-hood-hashing` [https://github.com/martinus/robin-hood-hashing](https://github.com/martinus/robin-hood-hashing)

In simpliest case to compile Jinja2Cpp you need:

1.  Install CMake build system (at least version 3.0)
2.  Clone jinja2cpp repository and update submodules:

```
> git clone https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp.git
> git submodule -q update --init
```

3.  Create build directory:

```
> cd Jinja2Cpp
> mkdir build
```

4.  Run CMake and build the library:

```
> cd build
> cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path to install folder>
> cmake --build . --target all
```
"Path to install folder" here is a path to the folder where you want to install Jinja2Cpp lib.

5. Install library:

```
> cmake --build . --target install
```

6. Also you can run the tests:

```
> ctest -C Release
```

In this case Jinja2Cpp will be built with internally-shipped dependencies and install them respectively. But Jinja2Cpp supports build with externally-provided deps. Different Jinja2Cpp usage scenarios can be found in this repository: https://github.com/jinja2cpp/examples-build

### Usage with conan.io dependency manager
Jinja2Cpp can be used as conan.io package. In this case you should do the following steps:

1. Install conan.io according to the documentation ( https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html )
2. Register the following remote conan.io repositories:
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/martinmoene/nonstd-lite
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/bincrafters/public-conan
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/manu343726/conan-packages

The sample command is: `conan remote add martin https://api.bintray.com/conan/martinmoene/nonstd-lite`

3. Add reference to Jinja2Cpp package (`jinja2cpp/0.9.1@Manu343726/testing`) to your conanfile.txt, conanfile.py or CMakeLists.txt. For instance, with usage of `conan-cmake` integration it could be written this way:

```cmake
include (../../cmake/conan.cmake)
if (NOT MSVC)
    set (CONAN_SETTINGS SETTINGS compiler.libcxx=libstdc++11)
endif ()

conan_cmake_run(REQUIRES 
                    jinja2cpp/0.9.1@Manu343726/testing
                    gtest/1.7.0@bincrafters/stable
                BASIC_SETUP
                ${CONAN_SETTINGS}
                OPTIONS 
                    jinja2cpp:shared=False
                    gtest:shared=False
                BUILD missing)
                
set (TARGET_NAME jinja2cpp_build_test)

add_executable (${TARGET_NAME} main.cpp)

target_link_libraries (${TARGET_NAME} ${CONAN_LIBS})
set_target_properties (${TARGET_NAME} PROPERTIES
            CXX_STANDARD 14
            CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED ON)

```


### Additional CMake build flags
You can define (via -D command line CMake option) the following build flags:

-  **JINJA2CPP_BUILD_TESTS** (default TRUE) - to build or not to Jinja2Cpp tests.
-  **JINJA2CPP_STRICT_WARNINGS** (default TRUE) - Enable strict mode compile-warnings(-Wall -Werror and etc).
-  **JINJA2CPP_BUILD_SHARED** (default OFF) - Specify Jinja2Cpp library library link type.
-  **MSVC_RUNTIME_TYPE** (default /MD) - MSVC runtime type to link with (if you use Microsoft Visual Studio compiler).
-  **JINJA2CPP_DEPS_MODE** (default "internal") - modes for dependencies handling. Following values possible:
    -  `internal` In this mode Jinja2Cpp build script uses dependencies (include `boost`) shipped as subprojects. Nothing needs to be provided externally.
    -  `external-boost` In this mode Jinja2Cpp build script uses only `boost` as externally-provided dependency. All other dependencies taken from subprojects.
    -  `external` In this mode all dependencies should be provided externally. Paths to `boost`, `nonstd-*` libs etc. should be specified via standard CMake variables (like `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` or libname_DIR)
    -  `conan-build` Special mode for building Jinja2Cpp via conan recipe.


### Build with C++17 standard enabled
In case of C++17 standard enabled for your project you should define `variant_CONFIG_SELECT_VARIANT=variant_VARIANT_NONSTD` macro in the build settings.

## Acknowledgments
Thanks to @manu343726 for CMake scripts improvement, bugs hunting and fixing and conan.io packaging.

Thanks to @martinmoene for the perfectly implemented xxx-lite libraries.

Thanks to @vitaut for the amazing text formatting library

Thanks to @martinus for the fast hash maps implementation


## Changelog

### Version 0.9.2
#### Major changes
- User-defined callables implemented. Now you can define your own callable objects, pass them as input parameters and use them inside templates as regular (global) functions, filters or testers. See details here: https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage/ud_callables.html
- Now you can define global (template environment-wide) parameters which are accessible for all templates bound to this environment.
- `include`, `import` and `from` statements implemented. Now it's possible to include other templates and use macros from other templates.
- `with` statement implemented
- `do` statement implemented
- Sample build projects for various Jinja2C++ usage variants created: https://github.com/jinja2cpp/examples-build
- Documentation site created for Jinja2C++: https://jinja2cpp.dev/

#### Minor changes
- Render-time error handling added
- Dependency management mode added to the build script
- Fix bugs with error reporting during the parse time
- Upgraded versions of external dependencies

#### Breaking changes
- `RenderAsString` method now returns `nonstd::expected` instead of regular `std::string`
- Templates with `import`, `extends` and `include` generate errors if parsed without `TemplateEnv` set
- Release bundles (archives) are configured with `external` dependency management mode by default

### Version 0.9.1
-  `applymacro` filter added which allows to apply arbitrary macro as a filter
-  dependencies to boost removed from the public interface
-  CMake scripts improved
-  Various bugs fixed
-  Improve reflection
-  Warnings cleanup

### Version 0.9
-  Support of 'extents'/'block' statements
-  Support of 'macro'/'call' statements
-  Rich error reporting
-  Support for recursive loops
-  Support for space control before and after control blocks
-  Improve reflection

### Version 0.6
-  A lot of filters has been implemented. Full set of supported filters listed here: [https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/7](https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/7)
-  A lot of testers has been implemented. Full set of supported testers listed here: [https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/8](https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/8)
-  'Contatenate as string' operator ('~') has been implemented
-  For-loop with 'if' condition has been implemented
-  Fixed some bugs in parser

Commit message:

Add built-in reflection for nlohmann and rapid json libraries. Resolves #78 (#130)
* Add reflection for nlohmann json library ( https://github.com/nlohmann/json )

* Add extra tests for nlohmann json reflectors

* Implement reflection for RapidJson library ( https://github.com/Tencent/rapidjson )

* Fix build, add extra tests

README.md, after:

<div align="center"><img width="200" src="https://avatars0.githubusercontent.com/u/49841676?s=200&v=4"></div>

# Jinja2С++

[![Language](https://img.shields.io/badge/language-C++-blue.svg)](https://isocpp.org/)
[![Standard](https://img.shields.io/badge/c%2B%2B-14-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B#Standardization)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp)
[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/vu59lw4r67n8jdxl/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/flexferrum/jinja2cpp-n5hjm/branch/master)
[![Coverage Status](https://codecov.io/gh/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/ff01fa4410ac417f8192dce78e919ece)](https://www.codacy.com/app/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp_2?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade)
[![Github Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/all.svg)](https://github.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/releases)
[![Github Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp.svg)](http://github.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/issues)
[![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Mozilla-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jinja2cpp/Jinja2Cpp/master/LICENSE)
[![conan.io](https://api.bintray.com/packages/manu343726/conan-packages/jinja2cpp%3AManu343726/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/manu343726/conan-packages/jinja2cpp%3AManu343726/_latestVersion)
[![Gitter Chat](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/Jinja2Cpp/Lobby)

C++ implementation of Jinja2 Python template engine. This library was originally inspired by [Jinja2CppLight](https://github.com/hughperkins/Jinja2CppLight) project and brings support of mostly all Jinja2 templates features into C++ world.

## Introduction

Main features of Jinja2C++:
-  Easy-to-use public interface. Just load templates and render them.
-  Conformance to [Jinja2 specification](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/)
-  Full support of narrow- and wide-character strings both for templates and parameters.
-  Built-in reflection for the common C++ types, nlohmann and rapid JSON libraries.
-  Powerful full-featured Jinja2 expressions with filtering (via '|' operator) and 'if'-expressions.
-  Control statements (`set`, `for`, `if`, `do`, `with`).
-  Templates extention, including and importing
-  Macros
-  Rich error reporting.

For instance, this simple code:

```c++
#include <jinja2cpp/template.h>

std::string source = R"(
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(', ') }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(d = '; ') }}!!!
{{ ("Hello", 'world') | join(d = '; ') | lower }}!!!
)";

Template tpl;
tpl.Load(source);

std::string result = tpl.RenderAsString({}).value();
```

produces the result string:

```
Helloworld!!!
Hello, world!!!
Hello; world!!!
hello; world!!!
```

## Getting started

In order to use Jinja2C++ in your project you have to:
* Clone the Jinja2C++ repository
* Build it according with the instructions
* Link to your project.

Usage of Jinja2C++ in the code is pretty simple:
1.  Declare the jinja2::Template object:

```c++
jinja2::Template tpl;
```

2.  Populate it with template:

```c++
tpl.Load("{{'Hello World' }}!!!");
```

3.  Render the template:

```c++
std::cout << tpl.RenderAsString({}).value() << std::endl;
```

and get:

`
Hello World!!!
`

That's all!

More detailed examples and features describtion can be found in the documentation: [https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage](https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage)

## Current Jinja2 support
Currently, Jinja2Cpp supports the limited number of Jinja2 features. By the way, Jinja2Cpp is planned to be full [jinja2 specification](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/2.10/templates/)-conformant. The current support is limited to:
-  expressions. You can use almost every style of expressions: simple, filtered, conditional, and so on.
-  big number of filters (**sort, default, first, last, length, max, min, reverse, unique, sum, attr, map, reject, rejectattr, select, selectattr, pprint, dictsort, abs, float, int, list, round, random, trim, title, upper, wordcount, replace, truncate, groupby, urlencode**)
-  big number of testers (**eq, defined, ge, gt, iterable, le, lt, mapping, ne, number, sequence, string, undefined, in, even, odd, lower, upper**)
-  limited number of functions (**range**, **loop.cycle**)
-  'if' statement (with 'elif' and 'else' branches)
-  'for' statement (with 'else' branch and 'if' part support)
-  'include' statement
-  'import'/'from' statements
-  'set' statement
-  'extends'/'block' statements
-  'macro'/'call' statements
-  'with' statement
-  'do' extension statement
-  recursive loops
-  space control

Full information about Jinja2 specification support and compatibility table can be found here: [https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/j2_compatibility.html](https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/j2_compatibility.html).

## Supported compilers
Compilation of Jinja2Cpp tested on the following compilers (with C++14 enabled feature):
-  Linux gcc 5.0
-  Linux gcc 6.0
-  Linux gcc 7.0
-  Linux clang 5.0
-  Linux clang 6.0
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 x86, x64
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2017 x86, x64
-  Microsoft Visual Studio 2019 x86, x64

## Build and install
Jinja2Cpp has several external dependencies:
-  `boost` library (at least version 1.55) 
-  `nonstd::expected-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/expected-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/expected-lite)
-  `nonstd::variant-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/variant-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/variant-lite)
-  `nonstd::value-ptr-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/value-ptr-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/value-ptr-lite)
-  `nonstd::optional-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/optional-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/optional-lite)
-  `nonstd::string-view-lite` [https://github.com/martinmoene/string-view-lite](https://github.com/martinmoene/string-view-lite)
-  `fmtlib::fmt` [https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt](https://github.com/fmtlib/fmt)
-  `robin-hood-hashing` [https://github.com/martinus/robin-hood-hashing](https://github.com/martinus/robin-hood-hashing)

In simpliest case to compile Jinja2Cpp you need:

1.  Install CMake build system (at least version 3.0)
2.  Clone jinja2cpp repository and update submodules:

```
> git clone https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp.git
> git submodule -q update --init
```

3.  Create build directory:

```
> cd Jinja2Cpp
> mkdir build
```

4.  Run CMake and build the library:

```
> cd build
> cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path to install folder>
> cmake --build . --target all
```
"Path to install folder" here is a path to the folder where you want to install Jinja2Cpp lib.

5. Install library:

```
> cmake --build . --target install
```

6. Also you can run the tests:

```
> ctest -C Release
```

In this case Jinja2Cpp will be built with internally-shipped dependencies and install them respectively. But Jinja2Cpp supports build with externally-provided deps. Different Jinja2Cpp usage scenarios can be found in this repository: https://github.com/jinja2cpp/examples-build

### Usage with conan.io dependency manager
Jinja2Cpp can be used as conan.io package. In this case you should do the following steps:

1. Install conan.io according to the documentation ( https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/installation.html )
2. Register the following remote conan.io repositories:
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/martinmoene/nonstd-lite
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/bincrafters/public-conan
    * https://api.bintray.com/conan/manu343726/conan-packages

The sample command is: `conan remote add martin https://api.bintray.com/conan/martinmoene/nonstd-lite`

3. Add reference to Jinja2Cpp package (`jinja2cpp/0.9.1@Manu343726/testing`) to your conanfile.txt, conanfile.py or CMakeLists.txt. For instance, with usage of `conan-cmake` integration it could be written this way:

```cmake
include (../../cmake/conan.cmake)
if (NOT MSVC)
    set (CONAN_SETTINGS SETTINGS compiler.libcxx=libstdc++11)
endif ()

conan_cmake_run(REQUIRES 
                    jinja2cpp/0.9.1@Manu343726/testing
                    gtest/1.7.0@bincrafters/stable
                BASIC_SETUP
                ${CONAN_SETTINGS}
                OPTIONS 
                    jinja2cpp:shared=False
                    gtest:shared=False
                BUILD missing)
                
set (TARGET_NAME jinja2cpp_build_test)

add_executable (${TARGET_NAME} main.cpp)

target_link_libraries (${TARGET_NAME} ${CONAN_LIBS})
set_target_properties (${TARGET_NAME} PROPERTIES
            CXX_STANDARD 14
            CXX_STANDARD_REQUIRED ON)

```


### Additional CMake build flags
You can define (via -D command line CMake option) the following build flags:

-  **JINJA2CPP_BUILD_TESTS** (default TRUE) - to build or not to Jinja2Cpp tests.
-  **JINJA2CPP_STRICT_WARNINGS** (default TRUE) - Enable strict mode compile-warnings(-Wall -Werror and etc).
-  **JINJA2CPP_BUILD_SHARED** (default OFF) - Specify Jinja2Cpp library library link type.
-  **MSVC_RUNTIME_TYPE** (default /MD) - MSVC runtime type to link with (if you use Microsoft Visual Studio compiler).
-  **JINJA2CPP_DEPS_MODE** (default "internal") - modes for dependencies handling. Following values possible:
    -  `internal` In this mode Jinja2Cpp build script uses dependencies (include `boost`) shipped as subprojects. Nothing needs to be provided externally.
    -  `external-boost` In this mode Jinja2Cpp build script uses only `boost` as externally-provided dependency. All other dependencies taken from subprojects.
    -  `external` In this mode all dependencies should be provided externally. Paths to `boost`, `nonstd-*` libs etc. should be specified via standard CMake variables (like `CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` or libname_DIR)
    -  `conan-build` Special mode for building Jinja2Cpp via conan recipe.


### Build with C++17 standard enabled
In case of C++17 standard enabled for your project you should define `variant_CONFIG_SELECT_VARIANT=variant_VARIANT_NONSTD` macro in the build settings.

## Acknowledgments
Thanks to @manu343726 for CMake scripts improvement, bugs hunting and fixing and conan.io packaging.

Thanks to @martinmoene for the perfectly implemented xxx-lite libraries.

Thanks to @vitaut for the amazing text formatting library

Thanks to @martinus for the fast hash maps implementation


## Changelog

### Version 0.9.2
#### Major changes
- User-defined callables implemented. Now you can define your own callable objects, pass them as input parameters and use them inside templates as regular (global) functions, filters or testers. See details here: https://jinja2cpp.dev/docs/usage/ud_callables.html
- Now you can define global (template environment-wide) parameters which are accessible for all templates bound to this environment.
- `include`, `import` and `from` statements implemented. Now it's possible to include other templates and use macros from other templates.
- `with` statement implemented
- `do` statement implemented
- Sample build projects for various Jinja2C++ usage variants created: https://github.com/jinja2cpp/examples-build
- Documentation site created for Jinja2C++: https://jinja2cpp.dev/

#### Minor changes
- Render-time error handling added
- Dependency management mode added to the build script
- Fix bugs with error reporting during the parse time
- Upgraded versions of external dependencies

#### Breaking changes
- `RenderAsString` method now returns `nonstd::expected` instead of regular `std::string`
- Templates with `import`, `extends` and `include` generate errors if parsed without `TemplateEnv` set
- Release bundles (archives) are configured with `external` dependency management mode by default

### Version 0.9.1
-  `applymacro` filter added which allows to apply arbitrary macro as a filter
-  dependencies to boost removed from the public interface
-  CMake scripts improved
-  Various bugs fixed
-  Improve reflection
-  Warnings cleanup

### Version 0.9
-  Support of 'extents'/'block' statements
-  Support of 'macro'/'call' statements
-  Rich error reporting
-  Support for recursive loops
-  Support for space control before and after control blocks
-  Improve reflection

### Version 0.6
-  A lot of filters has been implemented. Full set of supported filters listed here: [https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/7](https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/7)
-  A lot of testers has been implemented. Full set of supported testers listed here: [https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/8](https://github.com/flexferrum/Jinja2Cpp/issues/8)
-  'Contatenate as string' operator ('~') has been implemented
-  For-loop with 'if' condition has been implemented
-  Fixed some bugs in parser
